.TH pmr 1 "2007-08-22" Linux "user commands"

.SH NAME
pmr \- command line pipe measurement tool for Unixes

.SH SYNTAX
.B pmr
[\fB-l Bps\fR] [\fB-s size\fR] [\fB-m\fR] [-i R] [-o R] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-t secs\fR] [\fB-b size\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-e com args...\fR | FILE ...]

.SH VERSION
This man page documents pmr version 0.13 and maybe later.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I pmr
is a command line tool to measure bandwidth and amount of bytes going through
a command line pipe. It can also be used to limit pipe throughput in
bytes per second, compute an md5sum of the stream and compute
an ETA for completion.

If regular files are given as parameters, they are concatenated to the
standard output and an ETA is computed based on the total size of the files.

pmr tries to read a configuration file at startup. It can be used to set a
specific default behavior. See CONFIGURATION FILE section.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e com args
Execute command
.I com
with additional arguments, and copy the stdin of pmr to the stdin of
the command, and copy stdout of the command to the stdout of pmr.
pmr measures the rate of data going for the command.
Example: "com1 |pmr -e filtercommand -x |com2" will copy data from
com1 to filtercommand (filtercommand is given parameter -x), measure
data rate, and then copy output of filtercommand to com2.
.TP
.B \-h
Display help
.TP
.B \-i R / \-\-input\-range R
Limit copying of data from stdin by argument R.
R is in format x:y, where x is the number of bytes to be skipped in
the beginning of standard input. y is the total number of bytes to
read from standard input.

Either x or y may be omitted. With "-i x:", x bytes will be
skipped. With "-i :y", only y bytes will be read.

One may use IEC units with x and y, e.g. "-i 1KiB:".

In -e mode this limits data that is copied to the external
process.

Example: "echo foo bar baz |pmr -i 4:7 2>/dev/null" will print just "bar".
.TP
.B \-l Bps
Limit throughput to a given bytes per second rate
.I Bps .
One can use IEC or SI standard multipliers for
.I Bps
: KiB = 1024, MiB = 1024^2, ...; kB = 1000, MB = 10^6, ... The IEC or SI
multiplier must immediately follow the number. No whitespace is allowed
between the numeric and scaling part. All multipliers can be given as
shortened versions by giving only first two letters. Also, IEC multipliers
can be given with case-insensitive 2 letter versions: ki, mi, gi, ...

An example: pmr -l 64KiB < /dev/zero > /dev/null
.TP
.B \-m / \-\-md5
Compute an md5 checksum of the stream. This is useful for verifying data integrity through TCP networks.
.TP
.B \-o R / \-\-output\-range R
Similar to -i / --input-range, but only has an effect in -e
mode. This can be used to skip data read from the executed process, and
limit the total number of data written to standard output.
.TP
.B \-r
Don't print new lines on output, use carriage return
.TP
.B \-s size
Calculate ETA given a size estimate. Giving regular files as pmr parameters
implies -s SUM, where SUM is the total size of those files.
.TP
.B \-t secs
Display information once in every
.I secs
time interval
.TP
.B \-v
Display version information

.SH USELESS OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b size
Use input buffer size of
.I size
bytes

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
pmr tries to read a configuration file at startup. It is used to set
the default behavior. pmr first tries to read it from
$(HOME)/.pmr, and then from /etc/pmr. If configuration file is found,
it is read line by line. Lines beginning with # and empty lines are
ignored. Whitespace is ignored.

A line can contain 0 or 1 directives. Valid directives are:
.br
    carriage           (enable carriage return mode, see -r)
br
    limit rate         (set rate limit, see -l)
.br
    md5                (enable md5sum mode, see -m)
.br
    update t           (set update time interval, see -t)

.SH EXAMPLE 1
.nf
Transfer files with TCP from one host to another and simultaneously
verify data checksums with MD5:
.ft B
tar cv SHELL_PATTERN |pmr -m |nc -q0 host port

.ft R
The receiving end does:
.ft B
nc -l -p port |pmr -m |tar xv

.ft R
After the transfer, both ends can compare md5sums from pmr output, i.e. 
the last output line off stderr.

Optionally TCP transfer rate can be limited with -l.

.SH EXAMPLE 2
Generate lots of context switches:
.ft B
pmr < /dev/zero |cat > /dev/null

.ft R
Or optionally, use spawning mode (total waste for this case):
.ft B
pmr -e cat < /dev/zero > /dev/null

.SH CONFORMING TO
The bandwidth is printed in IEC 60027-2 (2000-11) Ed. 2.0 recommended 
format (KiB, MiB, GiB, ...).

.SH FILES
.br
/etc/pmr (global configuration file)
.br
$(HOME)/.pmr (user-specific configuration file)

.SH WEB SITE
http://www.iki.fi/shd/foss/pmr/

.SH AUTHOR
.B pmr
was written by Heikki Orsila <heikki.orsila@iki.fi>

.br
